Abstract.

A dataset of 100 observations of different men was collected in order to predict a model about Fertility in men.

In the present project we are attempting to predict wheter a men is fertile or infertile using machine learning techiniques.
We are using the K-nearest neigbohrs algorithm to get a model so we will be able to predict fertility
for new incoming men. 

Because the domain deals with medical conditions of patients, we are expecting to obtain a
model with a high level of prediction.

The data was obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php
It contains 100 observations and 10 attributes.

It contains several disdavantages:
1- The attributes can't be obtained easily, it must be collected trough a specialiced laboratory.
2- Is a relatively small dataset.
3- Altought a man is a man here and in China, we think the results may
vary from place to place by the conditions and habits in which distinct men live.


Advantages:
1- The Dataset is already normalized. We think they used the min-max normalization because
all the values are between 0 and 1.
2- It doesn't have missing values.
3- The dataset is classified as "classification and Regression" dataset by the UCI,
and by the size of the Dataset, is perfect for the project pourpose.
4- The dataset is according to the World Healt Organization Criteria.

Limitations of the study.
An important fact of the dataset is its size, actually, is very small.
The prediction of the data has just 2 output: fertile or infertile. We rely on the UCI Repository and
we think there is not error in the data recolection.
Also, comparing against other domains, the dataset is result of studies in laboratories and are less susceptible to fake data.
An interesting fact who called our attention is the season of the year in which the data was collected. We are not sure if
this is an important attribute, but we will discover it through the development of this project.
K-nearest neighbors is a proficient algorithm for prediction in this dataset, but if it wouldn't, a brief analysis of the
correlation will also be helpful.

Data domain explanation.
Infertility affects approximately 1 out of every 6 couples.
Male infertility factors contribute to approximately 30% of all infertility cases, and male infertility alone accounts for approximately one-fifth of all infertility cases.

Much research remains to be performed on the topic of male infertility, as many cases still receive an “unknown cause” diagnosis (half of the cases). 
Male infertility usually occurs because of sperm that are abnormal, because of inadequate numbers of sperm, or problems with ejaculation.

Potential male infertility will be diagnosed as part of a thorough physical examination. 
The examination will include a medical history regarding potential contributing factors.

There is usually nothing that can be done to prevent male infertility caused by genetic problems or illness. 
However, there are actions that men can take to decrease the possibility of infertility.



There are four main causes of infertility in males:

    A hypothalamic or pituitary disorder (1-2%)
    Gonad disorder (30-40%)
    Sperm transport disorder (10-20%)
    Unknown causes (40-50%)

Much research remains to be performed on the topic of male infertility, as many cases still receive an “unknown cause” diagnosis. 
Male infertility usually occurs because of sperm that are abnormal, because of inadequate numbers of sperm, or problems with ejaculation.
Some of the reasons for Male intertility are:

*	A pre-existing genetic condition
*	Use of alcohol, tobacco or other drugs
*	Hernia repairs
*	Hormone disorder
*	Exposure to poisonous chemicals
*	Exposure to radiation
*	Wearing restrictive or tight underwear
*	Premature ejaculation
*	Erection dysfunctions
*	Use of certain types of medications

Potential male infertility will be diagnosed as part of a thorough physical examination. 
The examination will include a medical history regarding potential contributing factors.

Male infertility is most often treated by conventional methods that include one or more of the following:

*	Taking medications to help increase sperm production
*	Taking antibiotics to heal an infection
*	Taking hormones to improve hormone imbalance
*	Avoiding taking long hot showers, using hot tubs or saunas
*	Wearing looser underwear such as boxer shorts versus jockey shorts

Artificial insemination is an option if the man’s sperm count is low. In this procedure, sperm is collected through multiple ejaculations. 
They are then manually placed in the female’s uterus or fallopian tubes.

Can male infertility be prevented?

There is usually nothing that can be done to prevent male infertility caused by genetic problems or illness. 
However, there are actions that men can take to decrease the possibility of infertility:

*	Avoiding sexually transmitted diseases
*	Avoiding illicit drugs
*	Avoiding radiation when possible
*	Avoiding exposure to toxic substances
*	Avoiding heavy or frequent use of alcohol
*	Observing good personal hygiene and health practices
*	Avoiding long, hot baths, hot tubs or saunas
*	Wearing loose-fitting underwear

Fuentes:
RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association
	https://resolve.org/
American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM)
	https://www.asrm.org/
World Health Organization (WHO)
	http://www.who.int/
UCI Machine Learning Repository.
	https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php

